Title: Blogging in Plaintext
Date: Jan 18, 2024

---

The other day I stumbled upon a really old fan-fiction website[1]. It was your
typical 90's looking website, complete with posts dating back to 1995. Poking
around I noticed that all the posts on the page were written in plaintext (ie.
some-post.txt) and I really liked the simplicity of all of it. 

It got me thinking, ever since I switched to my "simpleton website"[2] I've
been very satisfied with the simplicity of the site but wished that the
blogging experience was more simple and elegant without having to worry
about the "overhead" of using HTML tags in my posts (as little overhead as that
is).

So I've decided to give blogging in plaintext a go. It's still yet to be seen
how well this works in the long term but for now I see some advantages and 
disadvantages of this approach. The main advantage is that is it boils blogging
down to it's simplest form: no pictures, no comments, not even inline links,
just words on a screen. The other major advantage is compatibility, since
plaintext has been around since the earliest days of the computer, I can be
almost certain that any browser or device will be able to read this article. 
Another advantage is that you don't even need a browser to read this article,
and can read it perfectly by just using cURL, try it:

curl https://sunny.gg/posts/blogging-in-plaintext.txt

However there are tons of disadvantages to blogging this way. The main one is
that your post is just text, nothing else. That means no images, no clickable
links, and no analytics to figure out how many people have read this post. I'm
sure for many, any one of these would be an instant deal-breaker though for a
small personal blog like mine, I'm fine with the tradeoffs. I was even worried
that my posts would not get indexed by search engines though after looking into
it, it seems that Google (and I presume others) do in fact index txt files[3]. 
I'm sure I'm not doing myself any SEO favors by writing posts in plaintext 
though I'm not really concerned with hitting the first page of Google. 

So let the plaintext blog post experiment begin, it worked for the 90s kids so
I'm hopeful it will work for me too. 




[1]: https://anybrowser.org/soaps/gl/rot.shtml

[2]: https://sunny.gg/posts/my-simpleton-website

[3]: https://developers.google.com/search/docs/crawling-indexing/indexable-file-types